---
title: 'User IO'
published: true
morea_type: experience
morea_id: newtons-solver-io
---
The current program is not very useful. The data we are calculating is
embedded in the code of the program itself, so if we wanted to run the
same calculations on different data, we would need to change the
code. It would be a more useful program if the data were not tied to
the code itself, but came from the user running the program.

# Modify to Ask for Input

Modify the program to ask for the mass and force information
(magnitude and direction) from the user using the `input` function.

Now that we are expecting our program to be run by another user, we
also want to display a formatted output message so the user does not
need to understand all the variables in the workspace to determine the
final result.

Make your input prompts and output messages formatted similar to those
in the sample run below.

## Sample Run

<pre class="env-matlab">
<samp>Enter the mass of the object (kg): <kbd>2.2</kbd>
Enter the magnitude of the force (N): <kbd>1.2</kbd>
Enter the direction of the force (deg CCW wrt x): <kbd>21</kbd>
The acceleration of the object is 0.55 m/s^2 21.0 degrees CCW from x
</samp>
</pre>

- Note that the magnitude of the accleration can be found by either
  calculating the magnitude of the acceleration vector OR by using the
  magnitude of the net force you already calculated and applying
  Newton's second law again. Discuss with your neighbors the
  differences between these two approachs. Is one way more clear than
  the other?

::: box Reading Sample Runs
We will continue to make regular use of sample runs to demonstrate program interaction.
- <kbd>Text that looks like this</kbd> indicates input typed in by the
  user the <samp class="env-matlab"><kbd></kbd></samp> symbol indicates where
  the user pressed the "Enter" key.
- <samp>Regular black text in a monospaced font</samp> is assumed to be generated by the program itself, either from input prompts or formatted output. 
- <samp style="color:red">Any red text in a monospaced font</samp> is an error generated by MATLAB.

**Important**: The actual values used in sample runs can be used to check your calculations, but you should always make sure that your program works correctly for *any* valid value entered by a user, not just those shown in the sample runs!
:::

The first three lines of the sample run are generated from the input
prompt and the user entering values. The last line is formatted output
using `fprintf`.

Before moving on to the next section, try making small changes to your
usage of `input` and `fprintf` to see how the program output changes.

1. Try removing or adding an extra `\n` from the prompt in the `input` function, or the format specificaton in `fprintf`.
2. Try formatting the nubmers displayed with fprintf differently:
   - more or fewer digits after the decimal
   - scientific notation with `%e` or `%g`
   - scientific notation with 3 significant figures. There is a note
     about this in the [MATLAB
     documentation](https://www.mathworks.com/help/matlab/ref/fprintf.html#btf8xsy-1_sep_shared-formatSpec)
     associated with the `%g` conversion character.
